add: wip operators (#22)
Wiki-Knights/CS-Materials: src/intro-to-c/operators/operators-practice-answers.md

# Arithmetic Operators Practice (Solutions)

A fun thing to do in these exercises is to create a separate function and call it in main. That way, you can have your own library of functions and reuse it if you need.

> 1. Write a function that takes 5 numbers and returns the sum and average (in two decimal places) of them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Write a function that takes 5 integers and returns their sum, then write a function that takes 5 integers and returns their average as a float, using the sum function.
```

**Answer:**
```c
#include <stdio.h>

int sum(int v, int w, int x, int y, int z);
float average(int v, int w, int x, int y, int z);

int main (void) {
    long int a, b, c, d, e;

    // prompt user
    printf("Please enter five integers.\n");
    // getting the numbers
    scanf("%ld %ld %ld %ld %ld", &a, &b, &c, &d, &e);

    // printing
    printf("The sum of the numbers you entered is: %d\n", sum(a,b,c,d,e));

    printf("The average is: %.2f\n", average(a,b,c,d,e));

    return 0;
}

int sum(int v, int w, int x, int y, int z) {
    // adding all of them
    return v+w+x+y+z;
}

float average(int v, int w, int x, int y, int z) {
    // the average is giving by the sum of all terms / number of all terms
    // so we use our sum function and then divide by 5, but since we need the decimals, we need to cast to a float
    return (float) sum(v,w,x,y,z) / 5;
}
```

> 2. Write a function that receives a number and returns whether it is even or odd.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Write a function that takes an integer and prints text stating whether it is even or odd.
```

Author: i feel like this is too specific and doesn't allow for creativity. people can have different solutions to the question and i do not want to limit them by telling them exactly what to do. when i came up with the solution, i am not trying to say that mine is the most ideal one or the exact solution, but it is one way of doing it and that can help someone who was stuck or couldn't think of a way to solve it

Reviewer: Thanks for clarifying here. In that case, I take back my suggestions on re-wording the questions. Instead, I would just suggest putting on the solutions page that these are example solutions and not the "de facto" solutions, so it's clear that it's okay if you got something different.

**Answer:**
```c
#include <stdio.h>

void isEven(int x);

int main (void) {
    int a;

    // prompt user
    printf("Please enter an integer\n");

    // getting the number
    scanf("%d", &a);

    // calling the function that will print for us
    isEven(a);

    return 0;
}

void isEven(int x) {
    // when the number is even, the remainder of the division by 2 is 0
    if(x%2 == 0){
        printf("The number is even.\n");
    } else {
        printf("The number is odd.\n");
    }
}
```

> 3. Write a function that receives a number and returns if the number is divisible by 3.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Write a function that takes an integer and prints text stating if it is divisible by 3.
```

**Answer:**
```c
#include <stdio.h>

void isDivisibleBy3(int x);

int main (void) {
    int a;

    // prompt user
    printf("Please enter an integer\n");

    // getting the number
    scanf("%d", &a);

    // calling the function that will print for us
    isDivisibleBy3(a);

    return 0;
}

void isDivisibleBy3(int x) {
    // when the number is divisible by 3, the remainder of the division by 3 is 0
    if(x%3 == 0){
        printf("The number is divisible by 3.\n");
    } else {
        printf("The number is not divisible by 3.\n");
    }
}
```

> 4. Write a function that takes two numbers and returns which one is higher.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Write a function that takes two integers and returns the greater of the two. (If they are equal, you may return either.)
```

**Answer:**
```c
#include <stdio.h>

int findHighest(int x, int y);

int main (void) {
    int a, b;

    // prompt user
    printf("Please enter two integers\n");

    // getting the numbers
    scanf("%d %d", &a, &b);

    // printing
    printf("The highest number is %d\n", findHighest(a,b));

    return 0;
}

int findHighest(int x, int y) {
    // compare which one is bigger
    if(x > y) {
        return x;
    } 
    return y;
}

```

> 5. Write a function that takes three numbers, the sides of a triangle and returns whether the triangle formed by the given sides is equilateral, isosceles, or scalene.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. Write a function that takes three integers, representing the lengths of the sides of a triangle, and prints text stating what type of triangle (equilateral, isosceles, or scalene) is formed by the given lengths. *(An equilateral triangle is one where all sides are equal length. An isosceles triangle is one where exactly two sides are equal length. A scalene triangle is one where all sides are different lengths.)*
```

Author: i think if you're at this point of a cs degree, you should have the basic knowledge to know what are the types of a triangle

Reviewer: Honestly, I wrote this because even I forgot what isosceles meant, so I'm sure others have forgotten too. Obviously these are not hard concepts, but a quick reminder would be nice for those that have forgotten.

Author: google is free and available for everyone

Reviewer: Fair enough

**Answer:**
```c
#include <stdio.h>

void checkTriangle(int x, int y, int z);

int main (void) {
    int a, b, c;

    // prompt user
    printf("Please enter three integers\n");

    // getting the numbers
    scanf("%d %d %d", &a, &b, &c);

    // printing
    checkTriangle(a, b, c);

    return 0;
}

void checkTriangle(int x, int y, int z) {
    // an equilateral triangle has all equal sides
    if (x == y && y == z ) {
        printf("Equilateral Triangle\n");
    } // an isosceles triangle has 2 equal sides
    else if (x == y || y == z || z == x ) {
        printf("Isosceles Triangle\n");
    } // a scalene triangle has all different sides
    else {

>         printf("Scalene triangle\n");

Reviewer: The other print statements capitalize the T
```suggestion
        printf("Scalene Triangle\n");
```
